Well, welcome to this
course Deno first look.
The objective of this course is to
help you understand what Deno is,
and why on earth we need yet
another JavaScript runtime.
I mean, isn't that good enough?
Why is that not good enough?
Why do we need another?
And then also,
what I wanna do is help you understand
how to build applications with Deno.
And so we're going to
actually look at doing that.
And we're gonna do that later on today and
do something practical where
we're gonna build a website.
And do you think like templating, and
routing and all the things that you would
normally need to build both backend and
frontend sort of a full stack application.
Depending on when you watch this,
Deno may or may not have gained enough
popularity in the JavaScript
community to be really prolific.
The truth is that we don't
know if it ever will.
There's just no way to know what
things catch on and what things don't.
But my hope is that going through
this course will help you so
that if it does you're not caught on
your heels and that you're prepared.
Either way, today just might open your
your mind into considering a different
JavaScript runtime because Dino
really does things very differently.
If nothing else, it's going to cause
you to think about the things you
already know in a different way.
And that's always good.
So who should you be for this this course?
You should be a JavaScript developer
with some knowledge of Node.js.
I think I'm posturing that's
probably most of you out there.
If you work with JavaScript, you do work
with node in some form or fashion, and
that's because node is used to build
pretty much every website these days.
It's used to build front end applications.
We're use it for tooling on the on
the command line, right like linting and
web packing and Our frontend apps and
CL eyes and things of that nature.
Almost everybody that does JavaScript
is familiar with node or NPM and
NPM packages.
If you're very familiar with node as
in like you build web applications
with it specifically with like
an express or the COA framework.
This course will be particularly relevant
to you because the application that we
build is going to try to mirror some of
the concepts that you already know there.
And a lot of what we're gonna do today,
we're gonna compare back to node,
because that's the only
baseline that we have.
in which to do that that's the only other
JavaScript runtime that I'm aware of.
I'm sure there are others.
But that's really sort of
the reality that we have.
That's the world we live in.
And so that's the lens through
which we're gonna view things.
TypeScript would also be a plus if you
know TypeScript, that's gonna be a plus.
Although it's not specifically required,
I'm not gonna spend a ton of time
getting into the minutiae of TypeScript,
because there's just a lot of it.
And there's quite a bit of it that leaks
into Deno because TypeScript is a first
class citizen in Deno.
But my feeling on TypeScript is that If
we spend too much time talking about that
instead of Deno and
getting caught up in those details,
that it's really distracting from
understanding the core principles
of Deno and I don't wanna do that to you.
I don't wanna confuse you.
I wanna excite you.
So some knowledge of TypeScript will
be helpful but it isn't required and
plain JavaScript works just
fine in TypeScript as it is.
So I don't wanna get too hung up there.
But we will be writing
mostly TypeScript today.
Although we're gonna stay away from
the complex constructs in TypeScript,
like things like interfaces and
things like that.
We just not gonna talk about that.
If you wanna get a general
knowledge of TypeScript,
there's a video here I've included in the
course materials from Anders Hiles Berg
when they first announced it, it's about
an hour long, it's really all you need.
If you wanna understand typeScript and
excellent video,
I highly recommend watching that, and
you'll know pretty much everything you
need to know to work with typeScript.
All right,
The last time that I did a course here,
I got a lot of pairs are mistakes
that I made throughout.
And I'm sure that I'll see
them today as we go along.
You'll see them too.
Most of them will probably
be grammatical errors.
I tend to confuse it and
it's all the time.
For some reason after 42 years of being
alive, I still can't get that right.
[LAUGH] So
what I would like to ask is that if
you're going through this course and
you see mistakes, you'll see things that
I can't because I just can't see them.
If you would open a poll request or
file an issue on the Deno
first look repo,
I would very much appreciate that.
If you wanna get in touch with me you can
find me on Twitter you can contact me
there if you wanna just
hit me up directly.
I'm just bird calm and on Twitter although
I do try to avoid social media because I
want to be happy,
I don't want to be upset and sad.
So I tried to stay away from that.
My name is Berg and
I'm a content engineer at Microsoft, and
that's where I do in my day to day job
is primarily advocacy around VS code.
I spent a lot of time working with the VS
code team, GitHub, and also Azure,
and then all things JavaScript.
So there's quite a few JavaScript folks
at Microsoft, and we have a very strong
sort of sub community inside of
Microsoft that includes folks from TC39,
and folks from NPM, and
all of the different areas.
And we work really, really hard to make
Microsoft, and all of the things that we
build at Microsoft a great place for
JavaScript developers.
I've been a JavaScript developer for
about 12 years.
That's a long time,
I'm dating myself, that's okay.
I actually started as a C# developer.
Well, that's not true.
I did VB 6 and then I moved to C# and
I did C# for a while.
And I never really liked it because I
never really felt like I was good at it.
I was reading books all the time, and
I was really trying to learn it, but
it always made me feel like I
never could quite get it right.
And I was never gonna be great.
And then about the time that jQuery
came out, I really got into JavaScript.
I love JavaScript because
it makes me feel so
smart and
it makes me feel like I can do it.
And I love that.
And I think that JavaScript is bizarrely
suited for applications of all types,
browser apps, server apps,
large apps, small apps.
To me JavaScript is so
cool because it takes all of the rules.
All of the things that we know
about programming languages,
basically throw them all out the window.
And what we're left with is is this thing
that it's just a beautiful disaster.
I love it so much.
I love teaching because it's really
the best way to learn something.
If you can explain something to someone,
then then you probably
understand it yourself.
Otherwise you can't explain it.
It also lets me connect with people
like all you folks here today,
which is awesome.
And through that I've learned that we are
a lot more alike than we are different.
Mostly I would say that everyone learning,
I'm learning.
So if you feel like that you don't get it,
I promise you, you're not alone.
I don't get it most of the time either.
So there's at least two of us.
If you feel like that, it's you and me.
There's at least two, you're not alone.
I have this diagram that I always refer
back to, which I think is very poetic that
I always feel like I'm on the left that
like what I know is just like this
small subset and everybody else knows so
much more than what I know.
But actually, what I know and what other
people know probably equal size and
we just overlap in some places,
some places we don't.
And so I love this diagram it
makes me feel better about myself.
I live in Nashville, Tennessee which
is scientifically the greatest
city in the United States,
that's science I didn't make that up.
I have three teenage boys, and two pugs.
I'm a huge fan of Overwatch.
I play it a lot, probably too much.
I mean the Wrecking Ball.
I know a lot of people don't
like the Wrecking Ball.
They tell me all the time when we lose for
some reason.
I also do some woodworking, some crafting,
amateur, build some pieces of furniture.
My wife on occasion will ask for things
like hey, can you make me a bench for
the bathroom and then I'll do that.
It's woodworking and coding have
a lot in common as soon as knitting.
If you've never tried knitting before,
I'd encourage you to do that.
If you like coding, you can go to
the craft store and buy these like round,
loom knits to make hats and yarn.
And you'll find that the process of
knitting and coding is very, very similar
that it can it engages the same part
of your brain, it's very fulfilling.
So my friend Brian kedleston got
me into that, it's kind of cool.
Again, if you'd like to connect,
you can find me on Twitter.
Although I'm not there a lot,
I do try to avoid it.
I also put my email
address directly in here.
If you'd like to email me directly, that's
probably a better way to contact me.
And I would love to hear from you,
I do read my emails.
I will respond and
I would love to hear from you.
Why do we create this course?
I think that the key to staying
sane as a JavaScript developer.
Well in tact, but
it's even more exacerbated for
JavaScript developers is to be
open to learning new things.
And it's also good to learn in forget,
a lot of times you feel like I don't know
if I should invest time into doing that.
Because what if it doesn't end up being
a thing and then I spent all this time
learning it and then now I've
forgotten it and I don't use it.
I actually think that's not a bad thing.
You will pick up things that stay with you
that will pay dividends down the road.
Deno maybe just a ripple in the vast
ocean of JavaScript and tech.
Or it may become the actual ocean.
I mean, we just don't know.
And the fact that we don't know
causes us distress because
we're always trying to, we want to know.
Learning something about
Deno will remove the fear.
Then you might have about it.
And this is true for actually anything
in life, I've discovered is that,
if it scares you, if you learn more
about it, it won't scare you as much.
It takes the power away from the fear.
So try that out.
There's also no idea that should be off
the table when it comes to technology,
I do believe that.
So I think we should look at all of them
and then pick the one that's right for
you, your team, your brain, your project.
There's no one right answer only
the answer that's right for you.
There have been so
many instances of this in technology,
a great one is from the React project
where when I was first writing JavaScript
people always said never, ever put
your JavaScript in your HTML together,
you need to separate those out.
You they used to call it
unobtrusive JavaScript.
And then some guy said, Well, yeah, but
what if we put the HTML in the JavaScript
file, which is an insane idea,
that's an insane idea.
But today, we just call that
JSX that's just react and
we do that we don't think twice about it.
Bit and so we have to be willing to
embrace these sort of ideas that sound
kind of crazy because they may not
be as crazy as as we think they are.
I have another course on front end
masters called VS code can do that.
If you'd like to check that out, it's
all about what you can do with VS code,
it's completely free.
It's open to everyone no
subscription is required.
So you can check that out.
So thank you for being here with me today.
And that I hope you enjoy this
course this Deno first look.
By the way it is pronounced Dino,
not deno I wasn't sure about that.
So last night I went back to my room and
I watched a video from the creator
of deno and he pronounces the Deno.
So I don't know if it's one of
those things where both Deno and
Dyno are correct,
but we're gonna say Deno is the right way
to say it, since that's how Ryan says it.